# Syncall: Keep your Android apps updated
Do you like to get the latest features of the apps first than anyone?
Do you want to manually build everything to confirm the source code matches the binaries distributed by the developer?

You can use this Python script to automatically sync, build and sign all of your open source apps using gradle. It will download the latest copy of the source code from the git repository provided, proceed to build if changes are detected, to later sign the outputs and finally provide a ready to install .apk file.

## Usage
By default executing the command without arguments will result into it synchronizing all the git repositories in the immediate subfolders.
```
syncall.py
```

### Building
If you want to not only the sync the source code but also to compile the app when new changes are detected during the current syncing interation you must use it like this:
```
syncall.py --build /path/to/key.jks
```
The --build argument expects to be passed alongside the absolute or relative path to a Java key store containing a single key. You will be prompted to enter the password.
All the output files will be automatically aligned and signed with the provided key, and then placed a SYNCALL-RELEASES folder on the working dir.
By default the script will attempt the assembleRelease task for all the projects, but you can override this behaviour by placing a .custom-tasks file on the project folder formatted with a single task on each line and they will be executed on the encounter order.
Per example if on some project you want to always clean the gradle cache first, then compile the playstore release and then the debug build your .custom-tasks would look like this:
```
clean
assemblePlaystoreRelease
assembleDebug
```

### Retrying
The script will save a list of the failed projects in the previous interation in the .retry-projects of the working folder. It also will report to you a list of which specific task failed at the end of the run. This is so you can retry building after maybe figuring out any issues.
To do so:
```
syncall.py --build /path/to/key.jks --retry
```
The --retry command does not need any value, but requires the keystore to be set with the --build command because otherwise the .apk would not be signed.

### Forcing
Sometimes you may want to rebuild certain apps even if no upstream changes are received (offline project, no internet connection, just testing local changes...). You can do so by passing a list of comma joined project names (their folder name) alongside the --force argument:
```
syncall.py --build /path/to/key.jks --force Signal-Android,Tusky,SomeOtherProject
```
Requires the keystore to be set with the --build command because otherwise the .apk would not be signed.

### Preserving local changes
If you wish to preserve local changes tracked but not staged for commit you can use the --preserve flag, that commands the script to generate a diff of the current changes and to attempt on restoring it later. This is very useful to hold onto minor changes like gradle version bumps to fix compilation issues without having to reapply them on every update.
Per example:
```
syncall --build /path/to/key.jks --preserve
```
Would attempt to build all projects with changes preserving local changes made to them

### Miscellanea
Additional arguments are avalaible to force clean of the gradle cache generated by all the projects by passing --clean and to skip fetching for new changes on remotes by passing --nofetch.
This is very useful for situations where you just want to rebuild local changes without wanting to go through all the projects, per example:
```
syncall --nofetch --build /path/to/key.jks --force Shelter
```
Would force building of the Shelter project without fetching changes on any project.
